recessions are difficult to predict with
Precision perhaps in a fundamental sense
but with today's Central Bank
intervention it becomes very difficult
to assess the truth of what's going on
there are however some very telling
indicators which smack you right in the
face with a shocking blow of reality the
charts you will see are
undeniable you came here for the truth
today we are going to look at these
indicators of the stock market I want to
be begin with the SNP 500 this one is a
little different take on the index index
itself because it's index to 100 and
what we are doing here is comparing the
two previous recessions to the current
one now you may not be able to see the
font but at the bottom here we have the
blue line S&P 500 that is 96 to
2000 the yellow or gold line is
2004 to
2008 and then the Orange Line being 2014
to present and the numbers across the
bottom here are the trading days okay so
think about this for a second the two
previous
instances we had nearly an exact pattern
I mean give or take of what has happened
right now in this current state
and both occasions we had a dip
afterwards okay both
times now we're heading into this exact
moment where the stock market has been
rising and Rising okay very clear the
same thing occurred both times previous
however in the coming months very very
soon we will see a decline now that's
what the chart is saying okay I'm not
saying that that's what this particular
chart is saying and it's very very
telling that's the S&P going back two
times previous and it is you can't deny
it in the
chart whether or not that will happen I
don't know now is this the only chart
that's been showing that no not at all
I'll show you a few more in just a
second here let's go on the US yield
curve slope flattens prior to recessions
and this is yet another indicator when
we see the treasury
yields doing the same thing they have
done before many times before look at
this so the gray imagine the the Shaded
area being the recessions and every time
a decrease in the yield curve brings on
a recession okay that's where we're
headed currently look at this it heads
downward it heads downward heads
downward every single time previous
sometimes heading into the negative not
every
time every time this happens there's a
recession that
follows
it's I mean look at it this is shocking
to me that every single time it happens
this occurs now was the FED around in
the previous recession there to stop it
from happening
well yes of course but they couldn't do
that crash happened what happened
previous to that well the Fed was there
Central Bank intervention was there not
to this degree we have today obviously
but they're still
there the
general you know structure is still
there yet we had the same problems and
here we are right
now in one of the I believe it's now the
third longest expansion in
history so it's overdue by any means but
look at this I mean just another
indicator to pile up on top of the rest
and these are similar ones here based
only on the yield curve recession odds
elevated in the next 12 months we're
looking at the pro probability here 33%
that's what they're suggesting here out
of deuts bank okay that's not me saying
saying that 33% I don't know when it's
going to come because look if they print
enough money you can push this stock
market higher give the incentives to the
central banks and they will buy but the
consequences of course are
Untold this is yet another instance of
this and again you can see
that previous just before the Shaded
area you see this rising and rising and
what we have
obvious it's hard to really look at
these though I mean trying to predict
when the recession occurs they're
generally never
accurate and of course closer and closer
to that moment they seem to know
everything all of a sudden it's those
who had the foresight to predict in
advance and be ridiculed for long
periods of time before it actually
occurs that's what I really like to see
and sure sessions happen all the time we
are overdue that's just a simple matter
of fact risk that unemployment rate
Falls rapidly and this is uh based on
this forecast and here what we're
looking at with flat productivity growth
or with Baseline forecast again a
similar situation every single time they
have
the you know they lie to us anyway but
showing that unemployment decl
lines it seems to reverse course and
things end up getting bad very fast this
one here is interesting as well fed
policy could tighten enough in 2019 to
induce a recession so that would leave
quite a bit of time quite a bit of
expansion um right through 2017 into
2018 what they're suggesting here is
that based on the previous times
depending you know what happens here
that it would be enough to induce a
recession real fed what we're looking at
here by the way real fed funds rate
minus the real nutal fed funds rate we
account for the fed's balance sheet in
our measure of the fed's policy stance
so we don't know what the FED will do
exactly in terms of their policy here in
terms of their um rolling back on QE and
their balance
sheet regardless it's just interesting
to look at at to compare to the previous
times what had happened in those
previous recessions what are the result
of their actions how far they're willing
to go on these actions I mean this has
been unprecedented as of
late and again what the market expects
is that there will be continued
expansion monetary expansion continued
fiscal expansion
continued dramatic effects that that
seem to
be never ending so I don't know exactly
how it's all going to play out but when
I look at these type of things it makes
me want to step back for a moment and
regroup and look at my situation try to
take advantage of the situation if I
know that there's going to be a stock
market crash or if I assume that well
then I probably don't want to have my
money in equities I probably want look
at more safe havens so I would
suggest you know maybe something else
would be a better idea now I don't have
any money in the paper assets to begin
with but if I did I would start to think
okay let's time to revalue or reassess
my portfolio now would probably be a
good time that's the way I look at it
but there's no telling what the Federal
Reserve is capable of I mean they could
simply ramp up the printing presses
today print off trillions of dollars
hand it off to Banks and companies and
buy up all the toxic debt around the
world and it would prop up the stock
market there's no doubt but are you
really propping up the value of the
market are you simply deflating the
value of the
currency well I believe that it is the
latter that's it for this video if you
found it informative please give me a
thumbs up remember that when you give me
a thumbs up it supports the this channel
it pushes myself higher up in the
YouTube search rankings so I do
appreciate that and last but not least
if you found the video informative I
know you will find my books the money
GPS and my new release global economic
collapse even more
informative the first book is about the
four asset classes talk about the
foundation and how to profit from this
situation that's going on whereas the
new book takes the familiar Concepts but
goes into to what I call the money GPS
strategy and that's becoming
self-sufficient reducing your debt
earning income so definitely check those
out that you can actually flip through
the books at Amazon they have a look
inside feature which will allow you to
do that I'm also on steemit as well so
check me out on there if you're
interested in steemit for those who
don't know what steemit is is basically
a social media platform where you don't
have to worry about all of
the all the control and the monitoring
that occurs on YouTube so if you're
interested definitely check me out on
there links are in the description take
care